feat: split optimize upgrade to camunda 8 & 7 versions (#4241)
camunda/camunda-docs: optimize/self-managed/optimize-deployment/migration-update/camunda-7/3.13-to-3.14.md

The update to 3.14 can be performed from any 3.13 release.

> Moreover for users of Optimize 3.7.3 with OpenSearch, there is also a direct update path from 3.7.3 to 3.14. The required steps are described in the [migration and update instructions](./instructions.md).

Reviewer: Hey @conceptualshark , these changes have been incorporated into this PR now #4400

- Changes in behavior (for example, due to a new feature)
- Changes in translation resources

> ## Versioning

Reviewer 2: > Optimize instances of versions 8.5 and below will not be upgradeable to Optimize 3.14.

This is also kind of confusing because there wasn't really such thing as Optimize version 8.5. Wondering if we can present this information in a less ambiguous way 🤔

Reviewer 3: Did we not just do the 8.5 release? We have the upgrade notes [here](https://docs.camunda.io/optimize/self-managed/optimize-deployment/migration-update/3.12_8.4-to-3.13_8.5/) ("Update notes (8.4/3.12 to 8.5/3.13)")

Reviewer 2: What I mean is that the product wasn't forked. 8.5 and 3.13 was the same thing. So technically 8.5 -> 3.14 is possible, it's the data that we use to infer the intended running mode that makes it not possible

Reviewer 3: Will rephrase

> From Optimize 3.14 onwards, instances of Optimize running with Camunda Platform 7 will exclusively be using the 3.x.x versioning scheme. Conversely, instances of Optimize running with Camunda Platform 8 will exclusively be using the 8.x.x versioning scheme. This means you will only be able to update to Optimize 3.14 if you are currently using Optimize 3.13 or below. Optimize instances of versions 8.5 and below will not be upgradeable to Optimize 3.14.

Reviewer 2: > if you are currently using Optimize 3.13 or below

This is confusing, because customers can't update from 3.12 -> 3.14, for example

Reviewer 3: Can you elaborate, how will customers get to 3.14 if they cant update? Our [docs](https://docs.camunda.io/optimize/next/self-managed/optimize-deployment/migration-update/instructions/) state that we can upgrade from 3.12, we even have 3.12 > 3.13 update notes and are adding 3.13 > 3.14 note with this PR. I can also see the required upgrade plans in the repo, I dont think I'm aware of what change happened to prevent upgrading from 3.12.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, to clarify - they can upgrade from 3.12, but not directly to 3.14, they would have to go to 3.13 first. The statement `This means you will only be able to update to Optimize 3.14 if you are currently using Optimize 3.13 or below`, specifically `or below` suggests to me that a direct migration might be possible

Reviewer 3: Ah sorry, I thought thats how our upgrades always worked (eg getting from 1 to 3 by going 1,2 then 3). Will remove the "or below" to be less confusing.

> From Optimize 3.14 onwards, instances of Optimize running with Camunda Platform 7 will exclusively be using the 3.x.x versioning scheme. Conversely, instances of Optimize running with Camunda Platform 8 will exclusively be using the 8.x.x versioning scheme. This means you will only be able to update to Optimize 3.14 if you are currently using Optimize 3.13 or below. Optimize instances of versions 8.5 and below will not be upgradeable to Optimize 3.14.
> In order to ensure that no Optimize 8 upgrade is executed on an Optimize instance previously running with Camunda Platform 7, the 3.14 upgrade runs a check against you database before executing the upgrade. This check detects whether any Camunda Platform 8 data is present in your setup and if so, the upgrade will be aborted to avoid erroneous upgrade paths. Specifically, it validates that there is no data present in the `position-based-import-index` which is exclusively used for Camunda Platform 8 data import. If you are encountering issues upgrading to 3.14 in your Camunda Platform 7 environment please contact Support.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As of Optimize 3.14, instances of Optimize running with Camunda 7 exclusively use the `3.x.x` versioning scheme. Instances of Optimize running with Camunda 8 exclusively use the `8.x.x` versioning scheme. This means you will only be able to update to Optimize 3.14 if you currently use Optimize 3.13 or below. Optimize instances of versions 8.5 and below cannot be upgraded to Optimize 3.14.

To ensure that Optimize 8 upgrades are not applied to Operate instances using Camunda 7, the 3.14 upgrade runs a check against your database before executing, and exits the upgrade if any Camunda 8 data is present in your setup. Specifically, it validates that there is no data present in the `position-based-import-index`, which is exclusively used for Camunda 8 data imports. 

If you encounter issues upgrading to 3.14 in your Camunda 7 environment, please contact Support.
```

> In order to ensure that no Optimize 8 upgrade is executed on an Optimize instance previously running with Camunda Platform 7, the 3.14 upgrade runs a check against you database before executing the upgrade. This check detects whether any Camunda Platform 8 data is present in your setup and if so, the upgrade will be aborted to avoid erroneous upgrade paths. Specifically, it validates that there is no data present in the `position-based-import-index` which is exclusively used for Camunda Platform 8 data import. If you are encountering issues upgrading to 3.14 in your Camunda Platform 7 environment please contact Support.

Reviewer 2: > against you database 

against the connected database

> In order to ensure that no Optimize 8 upgrade is executed on an Optimize instance previously running with Camunda Platform 7, the 3.14 upgrade runs a check against you database before executing the upgrade. This check detects whether any Camunda Platform 8 data is present in your setup and if so, the upgrade will be aborted to avoid erroneous upgrade paths. Specifically, it validates that there is no data present in the `position-based-import-index` which is exclusively used for Camunda Platform 8 data import. If you are encountering issues upgrading to 3.14 in your Camunda Platform 7 environment please contact Support.

Reviewer 2: > aborted to avoid erroneous upgrade paths

aborted to avoid erroneous migrations being applied

> In order to ensure that no Optimize 8 upgrade is executed on an Optimize instance previously running with Camunda Platform 7, the 3.14 upgrade runs a check against you database before executing the upgrade. This check detects whether any Camunda Platform 8 data is present in your setup and if so, the upgrade will be aborted to avoid erroneous upgrade paths. Specifically, it validates that there is no data present in the `position-based-import-index` which is exclusively used for Camunda Platform 8 data import. If you are encountering issues upgrading to 3.14 in your Camunda Platform 7 environment please contact Support.

Reviewer 2: > please contact Support

Do all of our customers have the ability to do this? Or does it depend on their contract?

Reviewer 3: I dont know what our contracts look like, but there are a few places in the docs where it mentions to contact support/"us"/customer success. @conceptualshark is there a guideline for this?

Reviewer 5: @PHWaechtler I don't think we have any standards for this (please correct me if I'm wrong @christinaausley) but we absolutely should. My quick feeling for this would be that we use support (linked) or Customer Success Manager depending on the type of doc/issue and therefore where it should be directed. 

For example:

Contact [Camunda support](https://camunda.com/services/support/) if you encounter issues upgrading to 3.14 in your Camunda Platform 7 environment.

Contact your Customer Success Manager to increase your cluster size as this requires custom pricing.

NB: We always try to avoid using the term "please" in docs.

## Limitations

> Not all features of Optimize are yet supported when using it with OpenSearch as a database. For a full list of the features that are now supported, please refer to the [Camunda 7 OpenSearch features](https://github.com/camunda/issues/issues/705).

Reviewer: @OmranAbazid you merged the PR before I had the chance to implement the 2 suggestions that @conceptualshark made above. @conceptualshark I will implement the changes in a separate PR and send it to you for review then. I will also make some changes to the installation guide

> Not all features of Optimize are yet supported when using it with OpenSearch as a database. For a full list of the features that are now supported, please refer to the [Camunda 7 OpenSearch features](https://github.com/camunda/issues/issues/705).

Reviewer: Hey @conceptualshark , these changes have been incorporated into this PR now #4400
